
GNUBOY README


  INTRO

Welcome to gnuboy, one of the few pieces of Free Software to emulate
the Game Boy handheld game console. Written in ANSI C with a few
optional assembler optimizations for particular cpus, gnuboy supports
a wide range of host systems, and has been tested successfully on:

  GNU/Linux
  FreeBSD
  SunOS/Sun Ultra60
  IRIX/SGI O2
  IRIX/SGI Indy
  AIX/Unknown
  DR-DOS
  MS-DOS
  Windows DOS box

Additionally, gnuboy should run on any other *nix variants that have
ANSI C compilers and that are remotely POSIX compliant. As gnuboy is
Free Software, you're welcome to fix any problems you encounter
building it for a particular system, or to port it to entirely new
systems.

For build instructions, see the file INSTALL. For information on the
structure of the source tree, program flow, design decisions and
guidelines, porting, and so on, read HACKING.


  GENERAL USAGE

Just pass the name of the rom to load on the command line. Default
keybindings are as follows:

  esc         - exit
  arrow keys  - d-pad
  alt         - a
  ctrl        - b
  space       - select
  enter       - start

If you want to change these or other options, you should create a
gnuboy.rc file. See the system-specific info below for where to put
it.

The rc subsystem is very similar to Quake's console in many
respects. You have commands and variables. First, the commands:

  quit        - exit gnuboy (saving sram)
  reset       - reset to powerup state
  source      - process another rc file
  set         - set a variable's value
  bind        - bind keys
  unbind      - remove a keybinding
  unbindall   - remove all keybindings

Additionally, each gameboy pad button has two commands, one to press
it, and another to release it -- for example, +start and -start. When
a key is bound to one of these commands that starts with a +, it will
perform the corresponding - command when it's released, as expected.

Here's a list of the + commands, though they should be obvious:

  +start  +select  +a  +b  +up  +down  +left  +right

Now for the variables. To set any of the rc variables, just put the
command of the form "set variable value" in your gnuboy.rc or other rc
file. Some of the more interesting variables are:

  rcpath      - search path for loading extra rc files
  savedir     - the directory where save files will be stored
  forcedmg    - set to 1/true/yes to force color roms to play mono
  framelen    - delay in microseconds between frames

  dmg_bgp     - specify 4 custom colors to be used for mono background
  dmg_wndp    - same thing, but for the window layer
  dmg_obp0    - and for sprite palette 0
  dmg_obp1    - and sprite palette 1

  trace       - output a complete cpu trace to stdout
                (not supported with asm cpu core by default)
  sprdebug    - display bars indicating sprite count per line

There are a few others which may or not be useful. Also, certain
system and display targets have their own variables, which will be
described in the relevant sections below. For more info on how the
variables work, read the source.

For sample rc files, look in the etc/ directory.

Finally, to display help, version, or copying information, use the
--help, --version, or --copying options respectively on the gnuboy
command line.


  USAGE - *NIX SYSTEMS

The file gnuboy.rc should be placed in ~/.gnuboy/. If it is not found
in this location, the current working directory will be
searched. The following defaults will be used:

  rcpath      - ~/.gnuboy:.
  savedir     - ~/.gnuboy/saves

If you don't like these, override them with gnuboy.rc.

There are presently two *nix targets supported, X11 and Linux svgalib.
The latter will also work with libraries that wrap/emulate svgalib, in
case you want to use a framebuffer console or something. If there's
sufficient interest, direct support for popular framebuffer devices
(Linux, Sun, etc.) might be added.

Unlike the other display targets, the svgalib one allows you to choose
a video mode from among the available modes on your system. Simply set
svga_dims with the desired width, height, and color depth, and the
next closest available mode will be chosen. Alternatively, if you know
the svgalib mode numbers, you can choose a particular mode number with
the svga_mode variable. Keep in mind that only linear packed pixel
modes are supported, so you may experience troubles if you try to use
a mode-x or banked modes. Essentially, unless you customize svgalib or
use a wrapper library, there's probably no point in changing the mode,
since 320x200 is a low as you're going to get. Information on hacking
mode timings to create a true 160x144 mode for gameboy is beyond the
scope of this document.


  USAGE - DOS

Place your gnuboy.rc in the same directory as gnuboy.exe. You need to
specify a save directory in it; otherwise the working directory will
be used, which is probably not what you want. For example, if you've
installed gnuboy.exe in c:/gnuboy, and you want your saves to be
stored in c:/gnuboy/saves, place the following in a plain text file
called gnuboy.rc in c:/gnuboy.

  set savedir c:/gnuboy/saves


  COMPATIBILITY

(FIXME - Fill in compat rate info.)


  SUPPORTED MEMORY BANK CONTROLLERS (MBCS)

At this time, gnuboy supports MBC1, MBC2, MBC3, and MBC5 (including
the version with rumble support, although that functionality is
omitted). MBC3+RTC is not supported, as we have not been able to find
any good documentation, particularly in regard to the new model that
supports 128k SRAM. As usual, info would be appreciated.


  GRAPHICS SUPPORT

(At present there are a few missing features in the color gameboy
background priority behavior, due to a recent rewrite of the lcd
core. These should be fixed by release time.)

Color Gameboy roms are supported completely, including so-called
"highcolor" tricks. Yes, even in 256-color mode, although in games
that use too many colors on one screen, the later ones will only be
approximated. *nix users can just use 16 bpp display modes to overcome
such problems; DOS users will have to wait for VESA support or a
Windows port.

Much care has been put into ensuring that the lcd timings and
interrupts behave as closely to the real hardware as possible. A few
features remain unimplemented, such as reduced length HBLANK depending
on the number of sprites visible on the scanline, but the vast
majority of display tricks used in current roms work fine.

We do, however, lack information on proper HDMA/GDMA timings, which
could explain gnuboy's display failures in a few select color roms. If
anyone could provide us with accurate information, it would be much
appreciated.


  SOUND SUPPORT

No, there is presently no sound support whatsoever. We do have plans
to implement sound before long, and depending on how quickly things
go, we might have the first emulator to successfully play the various
digital voice demos floating around.


  JOYSTICK AND GAMEPAD SUPPORT

Sorry, none at this point. It shouldn't be hard at all to add, just
poll the joystick in the system interface module and make it generate
joystick "key" press and release events, then bind them as you would
keyboard keys.

In the mean time, i suggest just finding some comfortable keyboard
keys to use, or getting a pad that emulates keypresses.


  PERFORMANCE

Unfortunately, the assembly language core is having problems on DOS
right now, so it's only available on i386 *nix targets. However, here
are some performance estimates i've gathered (given in percent cpu
utilization, running at full 60 fps), and I must say that for any but
the slowest systems, the C code is a plenty fast...

                                 Optimized C        Assembly
  AMD K6-2/450                       12%               8%
  Pentium/75                     (too slow)           70%
  SGI O2                             25%            (no asm)
  SGI Indy                           70%            (no asm)
  Sun Ultra60                       3-20%           (no asm)

If anyone's interested in trying to get the asm working on DOS, be my
guest, but it didn't seem to be happening for me.


  KNOWN BUGS

DKC and a few other CGB roms have major tile glitches.

The portal between the temple and the Talon in FFL3 is glitched and
the game freezes for a second or two building the incorrect animation
when entering those screens. This seems unrelated to the former bugs.

The MBC3 realtime clock is not implemented.

LCDC STAT periods might be the wrong length immediately following
transitions between LCDC on/off. This is a pain to fix and it doesn't
seem to be causing any problems, so it will be ignored for the time
being.

Things might run a little too fast on DOS and maybe slightly too slow
on *nix. The timing code isn't quite perfect yet. Perhaps once there's
sound we'll let sound regulate timing.


  REPORTING OR FIXING BUGS

Found a bug not mentioned above, or better yet, fixed one? Send bug
reports or patches to gnuboy@starfox.org. Please be aware that
distribution of any code based on gnuboy must follow the provisions of
the GPL, so if you don't agree to this, don't send code to us or
anyone else. Let us know if you wish to be included in the credits.

For guidelines regarding code contributions, see the file HACKING.


  EPILOGUE

OK, that looks like about it. More to come, stick around...



  -Laguna






