#summary Information on the native SDL Dingoo A320 port

= Introduction =

This is a port for the China Chip A320 [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dingoo Dingoo], a MIPS based device. The A320 has a "native" OS µC/OS-II (uCOS II) and users can install Dingux, a Linux port. This port is known to work for the native OS and should work for [http://code.google.com/p/dingoo-linux/ Dingux] ([http://www.dingux.com/ also see]) too. Built using the excellent [http://code.google.com/p/dingoo-sdk/ Native Dingoo SDK] created by Flatmush and Harteex.

This is not a user friendly port for end users because:
  # it is not as fast as Joyrider's port (missing his memcpy and profiling enhancements)
  # sound it not yet very good (possibly related to speed above). gnuboy/rc file can be populated with "set samplerate 8000" to improve slightly but effects are marginal.
  # sound can not be disabled, i.e. "set sound 0" causes gnuboy to hang/freeze as does "set samplerate 0", "set samplerate 1"
  # like the Joyrider version `*`.rtc files are not portable and should not be copied to machines with different CPU types.
  # no menu
  # no show FPS indicator
  # screen scaling is untested (small window is known to work)
  # background images are untested

It is really targeted at developers at the moment.

This port does not impact the core gnuboy code so the Windows and regular Linux builds still work. I.e. they all share code. Also this version has core code that is slightly ahead of the current (as of Oct 2010) Dingoo ports as the other Dingoo ports are based on 1.0.3, this port uses the latest code and so has better game compatibilty, e.g. "Magical Drop". For more information see http://code.google.com/p/gnuboy/source/diff?spec=svn21&r=21&format=side&path=/trunk/docs/WHATSNEW

If you are not a coder you will not want this version just yet.

= Details =

At the moment the port is a .APP, and hard coded to run "adjustris.gb" (available from http://www.pdroms.de/files/910/) in the same directory that the binary is found. NOTE the rom doesn't need to be Adjustris it just needs to have that filename. Also if a rom is passed in as an argument that will be used as the rom name instead (i.e. .SIM support isn't far off).

Key mapping:

|| D-pad up        ||    UP ||
|| D-pad down      ||    DOWN ||
|| D-pad left      ||    LEFT ||
|| D-pad right     ||    RIGHT ||
|| A button        ||    A button ||
|| B button        ||    B button ||
|| START button    ||    START ||
|| SELECT button   ||    SELECT ||
|| X button        ||    Quit ||
|| Y button        ||    Quit ||
|| Left shoulder   ||    Quit ||
|| Right shoulder  ||    Quit ||
|| POWER UP button ||    Not Mapped ||

Keys can be remapped by creating a gnuboy.rc, see http://code.google.com/p/gnuboy/source/browse/trunk/docs/CONFIG for details on how config files work. Example:
{{{
set samplerate 8000
bind up quit
}}}

NOTE if X is mapped, pressing and holding X for 3 seconds will also quit gnuboy.